.TH SU 1 "May 2025" "Termux Compatibility" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
su \- Termux compatibility wrapper for root command emulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B su
.RI [OPTION]... " [-] [USER [ARG]...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B su
command in this Termux context is a compatibility wrapper that allows unprivileged users to emulate the behavior of the standard Linux
.B su
command.

It provides a way to execute commands as root (UID 0) or to start a root shell in a
.I proot-distro
environment (such as Alpine Linux), even without real root privileges.

If a real
.B su
binary is available (e.g., from Magisk or SuperSU), this script delegates to it.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -c " COMMAND"
Pass
.I COMMAND
to the shell as root (via proot), emulating
.B su -c
behavior.
.TP
.BR - , -l , --login
Start a login shell as a selected user in Alpine Linux (if installed). Defaults to root.
.TP
.BR --help , -h
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.B USER
Select a user in Alpine Linux. (if installed)

.SH USAGE
.TP
.B su -c "command"
Runs the specified command as root using
.B proot -0
in the current Termux environment.
.TP
.B su
Starts an interactive root shell in Alpine Linux (via proot-distro), if installed.
.TP
.B su --help
Displays help and usage information.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B su -c "ls /root"
Runs "ls /root" as root (via proot).
.TP
.B su
Opens a root shell inside Alpine Linux (if available).

.SH LIMITATIONS
This wrapper does not grant real root privileges; all root-like operations are emulated within Termux or proot-distro.  
Occasionally, the termux-tools package will update and override our rootless su, the only fix is making a .local/bin directory and adding it to your $BIN.

.SH AUTHOR
Ermageeerd

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR proot (1),
.BR proot-distro (1),
.BR termux (1)
